MapReduce Simple (Mrs)

Mrs is a lightweight but highly scalable implimentation of the well known
MapReduce programing paradigm developed at Google. It is written entirely in
Python and was designed for ease of use in such areas as research and education
where the larger and more complex implementations, such as Hadoop are not needed.
Things to consider before beginning:

    -Mrs was developed to run on a Linux platform. There is no Windows version
     available.
    -Mrs is flexible enough to run on a single processor, if you want, but
     was designed to handle large data sets while running on multiple machines.
    -Mrs is written in Python, so you will need to have it installed before
     trying to install Mrs.


Installation in a nutshell:

If you are an experienced programmer familiar with MapReduce, this overview may
be all that you need to get started, but if you still feel a little unsure how
to proceed, a more detailed set of instructions are available below.

    1. Using Git, clone the repository from git://aml.cs.byu.edu/mrs.git
       or download and unpack the tar file from code.google.com...
    2. Navagate to the MRS_HOME folder and run setup.py.
    3. From the MRS_HOME/examples directory, run wordcount.py, passing
       it a text file (or text files) and an output directory.

If all went well you should have a file called source_something_something.mtxt
in your output directory containing a list of all the words in the text file(s)
with their respective counts. Congratulations! You are now ready to begin
applying MapReduce to your own problems. Included with the source code are a
couple of tutorials that cover writing your own basic and somewhat more
complex Mrs implimentation. You may find these helpful.


Installation with a little more detail:

These instructions assume that you are at least somewhat familiar with the Linux
command line interface, the Python programing language and Git version
control.

  1. Using Git, clone the repository at git://aml.cs.byu.edu/mrs.git

    run: "git clone git://aml.cs.byu.edu/mrs.git

  2. Add the MRS_HOME/mrs directory to your PYTHONPATH.

    MRS_HOME refers to the path to the mrs root directory....
